I grew up in this congregation, and for many years it felt like a loving family.
But lately, I struggled to feel the same enthusiasm.
And the elders, I struggled to understand them too.
Traffic is bad after work.
But they probably think that I'm slacking.
They only notice their favorites, like Tulani.
He's got to be the slowest brother on mics.
And this couple, every week, they are on the platform.
Loving all the attention, I know this irritates his way too.
I don't know when I started feeling this way of my congregation.
But lately, I feel so disconnected from these people.
I have been giving Bible reading assignments since I was his age.
These are still the only assignments I get.
And with each passing month, I find myself feeling more and more unhappy in this congregation.
Why then do you look at the straw in your brother's eye,
but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother,
allow me to remove the straw from your eye?
When look, a rafter is in your own eye.
Hypocrite.
First remove the rafter from your own eye.
And then you will see clearly how to remove the straw from your brother's eye.
I wonder, what did Jesus mean by that?
How could you fit a rafter in your eye?
And how will you see anything else?
How can someone with a rafter in his eye even try to remove a straw from someone else's eye?
Reading the Bible can be funny sometimes.
Jesus actually said,
hypocrite.
First remove the rafter from your own eye.
Hypocrite.
Why did Jesus call this man a hypocrite?
Perhaps he was so focused on the straws, the mistakes of others.
He did not see the bigger mistakes, the rafter in himself.
Hmm.
But that made me think.
Am I a hypocrite?
I want to enjoy my service.
I don't want to be negative or critical of my brothers.
But how do I fix it?
I prayed.
I asked Jehovah to forgive me.
I asked for humility too.
Then I went on and asked my boss if I could leave 30 minutes early so that I could do that Bible reading.
I was surprised when he said,
yes, he even suggested that I could leave early every meeting night.
It was like Jehovah walked into his office before I did.
But when Brother Kumalo commanded me,
even then I thought,
is he being genuine?
That's when I realized.
I had to continue to remove the rafter from my eye.
I have to try to view the whole congregation the way Jehovah views them.
I hope to enjoy the new world with them one day.
Over the months, by becoming more helpful and less critical,
I feel more connected to my congregation.
Applying Bible principles helped me see the reality
that it was my attitude that made me unhappy,
not the mistakes of my brothers.
All this time,
the best way to change my congregation was to change myself.